this year each of the nominees from
leading actor has brought to the big
screen some of the most inspired and
harrowing work that we've ever seen in
this category in a normal year any one
of these performances would have stood
out as the most challenging imaginative
and ambitious of the year and so tonight
the Academy has had to the difficult
task of honoring the finest among equals
the nominees for leading actor in a
motion picture are Bradley Cooper silver
linings player Daniel day-lewis Lincoln
Hugh Jackman lemis ABAB
what moon Phoenix the master Denzel
Washington flight
and the Oscar goes to Daniel day-lewis
with three Oscars
I really don't know how any of this
happened ie
I do know that I've received so much
more than my fair share of good fortune
in my life and I'm so grateful to the
Academy for this beautiful honor it's a
strange thing because three years ago
before we decided to do a straight swap
I had actually been committed to play
Margaret Thatcher and
and Merrill was was was Stephens first
choice for for Lincoln and I'd like to
see that version and um Stephen didn't
have to persuade me to play Lincoln but
I had to persuade him that perhaps if I
was going to do it that Lincoln
shouldn't be a musical um my fellow
nominees my equals my betters I'm so
proud to have been included as one
amongst you when we got married 16 years
ago since we got married 16 years ago my
wife Rebecca has lived with some very
strange men um I mean they were strange
as individuals and probably even
stranger if taken as a group but luckily
she's the versatile one in the family
and she's been the perfect companion to
all of them I'd like to thank Kathy
Kennedy our producer and through you
Kathy and and through you are a mighty
team of co-conspirators at the apex of
that human pyramid there are three men
to whom I owe this and a great deal more
Tony Kushner our beloved skipper Steven
Spielberg and the mysteriously beautiful
mind body and spirit of Abraham Lincoln
for my mother thank you so much